# NFS vs. AFS 

How does NFS and AFS operate? How is the design different in these two file systems? What are the consequences of these design choices on performance, e.g., how sensitive are they to network disruptions? Consider your mini-project design and argue about similarities to the two file systems.

## Basic Distributed File Systems

Storing data on servers to for back-up and serving multiple clients.

## NFS

OS independent with transparent access by maintaining local file system semantics.

Uses RPC for distributed transparency, however it is synchronous, hence introduces latency overhead.

It is sort of stateless, however file locking introduces state. The file handler is used by the server and referenced by the client. The client MOUNTs system and get the reference for the file handler.

**Write Operations** append writes to files by some offset. 

**Idempotency** Do the same write operation is the same as doing it once.

**Caching** Caching of write operations on the client to improve performance, as local disk speed is usually faster than network.

## AFS

Can be replicated on multiple servers

Can be moved to different locations on a live system without affecting availability

Can be replicated, offering the possibility of load-balancing and increased availability and performance

Uses cache on client local storage. Ensure cached copies of files are up-to-date when
another client closes the same file after updating it.

Client are called Venus, server are called Vice.

Typical UNIX read/write semantics on the same machine: writes to a file are immediately visible to other local processes.

New data written to a file is not stored back at the file server and visible to other clients until the file is closed.

Minimizes network communication and file server load

When the server becomes aware that a particular file is modified by a client, the server breaks callbacks (initiates invalidation callbacks) for any clients with local cached copies of that file

Access is granted by tokens

**Issues** Network is unreliable and may prevent delivery of callback, clients may crash and file server may crash.

\newpage{}
