# Object Storage

What is object storage? What is an object (what are its parts)? What is a container? How do you interact with an object storage system compared to a file system? How do you access an object? What is the advantage and use of object storage?

Objects are files including metadata.

Object storage are used for web-scale storage system, where various user device access the same data trough the use of REST APIs.

Object Storage optimizes for capacity, scalability, geographical distribution, eventual consistency and web accessibility.

## Open Stack Swift

Is a object storage system. Designed for horizontal scaling to exabytes of data. It support replication and erasure coding for reliability.

Data is accessible from anywhere using the Swift API, which is a well-defined REST API. Every object is defined as an URI.

```
http://example.com/api/v1/account/container/object
```

Objects can be accessed trough basic HTTP method.

### Architecture

**Load-Balancer**
Open Stack Swift uses a load-balancer to simultaneously serve millions of users world-wide.

**Proxy**
The REST API is implemented as proxy servers. The proxies routes client request to the disks.

**Filesystem**
The disks implements a standard filesystem, where object are stored a long with its metadata.

**Replication**
Constantly checks for replica status and updates replica sites.

**Consistency**
Constantly ‘scrubbing’ data to check for bad data.

**Standard Servers**
Built on standard server hardware with disks and uses no raid, as swift already provides reliability with reduced cost ans visibility to the hardware underneath.

### Geographical Distribution

With the use of region data are replicated at a global scale. An object is written to all regions simultaneously. 

### Big Data

A good fit for hot and warm data, due to global accessibility, managed capacity, ease of integration.

Uses HDFS to preserve data, that is getting colder using MapReduce.

\newpage{}
